## PROJECT
I hit a number of roadblocks with the VLC project. As it happens, and as I mentioned in my previous blog, the maintainers are overhauling the entire documentation of the project and are therefore not taking any suggestions and contributions to that aspect of the project in the meantime. I couldn’t find anything suggesting how long this wait would be so obviously, I couldn’t wait around for it. 
I needed a different project to focus on and alas I discovered one I have used before but had no idea it was opensource. The project is [Microsoft Terminal](https://github.com/microsoft/terminal).  It checks many of the boxes of a good opensource project. It has 53 active pull requests with the latest one opened as recent as 5 hours ago at the time of this writing, 704 currently open requests and 1997 closed ones. 92% of the code is written in C++ which is ideal for me. They do not have a contributing file upfront under the “code” tab of the repository where the code-of-conduct and readme files are. Instead its within another folder called “[docs]( https://github.com/microsoft/terminal/tree/master/doc)” which is  linked from the readme file. The contributing file is pretty comprehensive, but its hidden location is probably why the [community profile]( https://github.com/microsoft/terminal/community), which displays how the project compares to the community standards of a good opensource project, under the  “Insights” tab in the repository, shows it as absent. I wonder if I should suggest they place the file at the more obvious main page of the repository. Is this big/good enough be an “Issue” to be opened?

I have a windows pc and as I mentioned above, I have used the terminal many times before. Infact, I am actively using it now for all of my coding assignments, as an alternative to the “bashrc” that runs on Ubuntu. In additions to the Windows Terminal, I use Visual Studio 2019 as an editor to code and sometimes run my programs. These are the prerequisites listed in their developer guidelines and what I assume to be the developing environment needed for the project. So, I think I’m all set in that regard.
I made the change to this project fairly recently and haven’t been able to find an issue yet. I’ still actively looking though.


## [THE CATHEDRAL AND THE BAZAAR](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html)
Unfortunately, I almost forgot about the required reading of this book, so I only managed to read a few sections of it. The part that stuck out to me most is the section that posed the question “How many eyeballs tame complexity”?
As I read his initial statement in the abstract, “Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow”, I immediately understood and completely agreed with that sentiment. People are innately distinct; we think and reason differently. You, as the developer of the project will indeed see things differently than a user or a contributor to the project be it a “non-source aware user” as the author put it or code contributor to the project. I guess when you think about it, most proprietary software are very limited in who they can rely on to report bugs; general users of the software who would typically only provide shallow depth bugs and inadequate information for recreating the process that led to the bug, and also, the very developers of the software who tend to be blind to certain areas of their own code.

This is one area where open source gains a critical advantage over proprietary software. With opensource, there are literally more eyes looking at the project, eyes belonging to people with different backgrounds, mentality and interests in the project. This sets a stage for others to look into the projects from different perspectives allowing them to see and report certain issues from unique angles that the core developers would otherwise not have noticed. 
I agree that there is an inverse relationship between number of “eyeballs” looking at a project and complexity of the project. Especially considering the very integrated channels opensource project developers and contributors use to segregate the various tasks by types, allowing such subtasks to have a more specialized team of developers looking into them. Brookes law is a legitimate concern, yes! But not on the project as a whole, rather, only within these subtasks, which are likely to have just a handful of active developers anyway.

