---
layout: post
title: Week 04
---



## Class Git Activity

The Git activity we had in class was very eye-opening. Learning the theory, the week before was one thing. Actually, implementing it in a timely fashion, where progress on the task at hand is entirely dependent on each team members contribution, is another.  

Admittedly I imagined, when we were told we would be working in groups, that we’d actually be having a close personal communication with our team members. It was only revealed later that in reality, you’d be working with individuals and groups across different geographical regions, so it made sense the simulation/ class activity reflected that.
My task within the group was to create a readme file with the group name on top, where each member would list their names. I managed to create, add and commit the file in Git. Transmitting the local branch commits to the remote repository branch is where I run into issues. Apparently this was to be expected as, when too many people have administrative control over a project(which each member of my group did, for the purpose of the activity) and they are all merging or pushing their changes simultaneously, git has a hard time synchronizing each update to the remote repository.  

What I had to do was first issue a pull request to update my local copy, and then re-add the file. I had some confusion with the Git commands, not so much because the process itself is confusing but rather    mainly because I hadn’t yet been able to practice them after the previous week when it was first introduced in class.  After receiving some help from the professor and a colleague, I managed to merge my changes. Then I went on to do the other independent tasks assigned, the last of which I completed just a few minutes after the end of the class. It had to do with adding my fork of the repository as a remote to my local repository.

I’d say this activity was a very useful and insightful experience. There’s no better way to fully understand something than getting a hands-on, personal feel of it. Lessons tend to stick better that way.

----

## Thoughts On Article

Of the required articles I read, the one that made the most impact was the one on [How To Contribute To Open Source](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/). 

Particularly the part about what it means to contribute to Open-Source.
It goes on to list the many various ways one can make a contribution to open-source projects, and how, no matter how small the contribution might be, could go a long way to make a meaningful addition to the particular project. Suffice it to say, one can invariably find something to contribute to open source. 
By the end of that list, you realize how there’s simply almost no to not make some kind of contribution to open source as you can most certainly find a project related to at least one of your many interests in there. And, some even make these contributions without even realizing it.

Now I'd like to contribute in any way I can, but I figured the best way forward was to spend that time contributing to a field I actually hope to build a career off of. Thus, anything to do with coding/ software development. Only, I was unsure precisely how or where to even begin after finding the project I want to contribute to. I’m still a novice programmer so exactly what sort of contribution at all can I make that the more seasoned coders haven’t made already?
This was the thought that kept buzzing in my head before I read the following quote down the list from the article; 

>*“Even if you’re a software developer, working on a documentation project can help you get started in open source. It’s often less intimidating to work on projects that don’t involve code, and the process of collaboration will build your confidence and experience”.*

Now I have an idea where to start should the time come for me to engage in any open source project I choose, and, I’m looking forward to when I’m able to make even bigger, more impactful additions to projects.
I also learned from the article that others contribute by reviewing other people’s code, should they request it, and helping/ teaching them how to improve the code. That is an admirable and unique contribution and will definitely come in handy in helping develop the skills of the community as a whole. 

----

## Blog Edits
I received about two pull requests from two separate people. The suggested changes were grammatical and spelling corrections. I reviewed the changes happily, replied the issues with comments of gratitude, and the I merged the changes and closed the pull requests.
I made pretty much similar grammatical and spelling corrections in a colleague’s blog for week 3. I first forked a copy, then I cloned it. Then, with each correction or addition I made, I staged and committed it with comments on the corrections. Finally, I pushed my changes collectively to the upstream fork of his repository. I had no issues creating the pull request and merging, unlike the issues I got during the class activity.



