---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

### My Position On Some Of The Statements Mentioned In _[This Article](https://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-things-you-should-know-about-open-source-before-you-use-it/)_ Regarding Open-Source.



Majority of the stuff I have learned in the past three weeks, I either did not know before, or knew very little about. Suffice it to say I am guilty of not knowing a good amount of stuff _[this article](https://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-things-you-should-know-about-open-source-before-you-use-it/)_ on **things one should know before using Open-Source**" talks about. I guess it all leads back to a particular software I wrongly thought was the first ever Open-Source software I had used. I will explain.

Yes! I am one of those who thought all Open-Source software was free to use. The first software I ever used knowing beforehand that it was an Open-Source application was **Canonical’s Ubuntu**. It was and still is free, so I assumed that was what Open-Source meant, software/applications that are free to use. I was only interested in what the software could do for me at the time and the only reason I knew it was Open-Source was because it was written boldly in very noticeable fonts on their official webpage where I downloaded it.
Meanwhile, long before I even first heard of Ubuntu, I had already been using **Mozilla Firefox** and **VLC Media Player** without even knowing those too were also Open-Source. In fact, a more recent example is the **Notepad++** mentioned in the article. I have been using Notepad++ on a semi-regular bases since I started this computer science course and I literally just found out it is also an Open-Source software only after reading point 10 in the aforementioned _[article](https://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-things-you-should-know-about-open-source-before-you-use-it/)_ where it lists a few applications that people use but probably have no idea its Open-Source. Now I have to wonder what other apps installed on my PC are Open-Source.

Also, owing to my false “first” Open-Source experience with the __Linux distribution software__ Ubuntu, I imagined all Open-Source applications must have something to do with Linux. Thus, I subconsciously associated anything Open-Source to the properties of the one software I had used. Indeed, for a brief period I even thought only operating systems could be Open-Source.

Needless to say, I lacked substantial basic knowledge about the subject matter, but I’ve learned a lot since then, especially in the past few weeks, and I’m looking forward to what’s to come. 
