## Finding a suitable project

To quote one commenter on a Quora page about open source projects for beginners, “It’s difficult to find open source projects for beginners”. She also said by the time open source projects become popular enough to have many developers contributing to it, the project would have also become “fairly complex spanning over hundreds of files”, making it difficult for a beginner to grasp. I found this to be true as many of the projects I looked at seem to be quite comprehensive and well past its infancy stages, with some even stating they have no issues available for first-time contributors. This was particularly the case with the [OpenGenus project.](https://github.com/OpenGenus/Join_OpenGenus/contribute)

Reading the extensive article on [project evaluation](http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/csci395.86/activities_f19/project_evaluation_activity.pdf) provided a better approach to project search with many helpful pointers on finding and evaluating potential projects I may find. With that, I set out to search deeper for my project. 

As I have said before, the only programming language I’m comfortable with is C++ and so I was that specific with my search. Turns out, there aren’t that many opensource C++ projects suitable for beginners, so I decided to expand my search. Afterall, my first contribution isn’t going to be code anyway. 

 Below are some of the projects I looked at;

•	[VLC]( https://www.videolan.org/developers/)
In my search, someone suggested VLC and I didn’t think it was a bad idea. I have used this media player for as long as I can remember and so I felt contributing to it will be quite fulfilling. It also has tasks for different programming languages which I found welcoming. From what I could gather, they seem to have their own repo hosting site. They have also stated how their documentation is outdated and thus are inviting contributors to update it if they can. Following the links lead me to their [Wiki](https://wiki.videolan.org/Help_VideoLAN) site containing details and links regarding contributions. This is where I’ll start, I guess if I do choose this project to work on.

•	[GNOME](https://www.gnome.org/)
GNOME is an open source desktop environment for Unix-like operating systems. I have used Ubuntu before, so I guess I’m indirectly I have used Gnome as well. They also have a [dedicated documentation contributing site]( https://wiki.gnome.org/DocumentationProject/Contributing) with all the necessary details to contributing including their IRC channel which they invite you to join. Thanks to the last class we had, I knew what IRC was and how to join conversations using the application.

I wasn’t entirely sure however if one was required to have the software in question installed in order to be eligible to contribute documentation to it. The site isn’t very clear about that and I don’t think that’s the case with VLC. So, I’m skipping this for now.


•	[Seamly2D]( https://github.com/fashionfreedom/seamly2d)
This is a pattern designing software and another suggestion I took online. I skipped this project mainly because it did not state what kinds of contributions were needed for the project. The only thin it stated was the various protocols or procedure to follow in creating and merging your changes to the remote. It also has quite a number of issues that has been open for too long.


#### Observations and Questions
Its only after exploring some of these projects that I realized I wasn’t really clear on where exactly a documentation contribution was to be made. Only after VLC, OpenStreet Map and a few others lead me to their own personalized Wiki pages, is when I got a better understanding of what and where these contributions are to be made. Am I right to presume that was one of the main reasons for creating Wikipedia accounts, to edit open source project documentation?

The project evaluation article talks about, among others, finding out how many issues were closed in the past six months, how long do issues stay open, how many pull requests are there and so on. 

These are GitHub specific features and so I was wondering, what about those projects not hosted on GitHub? How does one get all this information about those projects when they aren’t hosted on GitHub?

Also, does one have to worry about all the relevant issues brought up in the article when that person is only going to be contributing documentation as a start?



## Thoughts Karen Sandler’s Talk
I have to say, that was a very enlightening talk she gave. All that she said and the issues she addressed gave me a much broader sense of how far reaching open source development is or potentially could be. By that I’m referring to how open source could potentially impact the medical or political aspects of society and more. Those were the issues I found most intriguing and, after hearing her recount her medical history involving her heart, its hard to deny the need to have access to the software that run on these devices we solely depend on, on a daily basis. 

And to be fair, its also hard to deny the potential risks of opening certain sensitive codes to the general public which could allow certain individuals to use it for malicious reasons. With that, I understand why there’s resistance to make these software open source.

On the one hand, its nigh impossible to tailor each medical device for every specific individual hence the need to make it open for personalization. On the other hand, making it open could potentially open it up to all sorts of risks.

It’s a very tough decision to make and I only hope we get to a stage where a compromise can be reached because, in my opinion, there are legitimate concerns on both sides. 



## New Knowledge
As I briefly mentioned above, I learnt how to use IRC during the last class. I had no trouble installing it. it took me a while to receive the texts from others in the class at first but that was because I was on the wrong channel.
I learnt more about the legalities of open source from Karen Sandler and the impacts it has on society. 
I have effected the suggested changes to my contributions page about separating each entry to make it easier to read. With regards to the [page](https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Develop) you suggested I look at to make feature suggestions, when I open it, I am met with a  mostly blank page and the message _“There is currently no text in this page. You can search for this page title in other pages, or search the related logs, but you do not have permission to create this page.”_
I’m not sure if I need to create a separate account for that page because it did not accept my Wikipedia credentials .


