---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

### Address these two questions in your blog: What types of contributions do you think are suitable choices for you to make as your first contributions to an open source project? What types of projects interest you and how do you see your relationship to them?


I have learned contributing to an open-source project is one of the more effective ways a beginner coder can gain some experience and develop/exercise his/her skills in real life situations, all the while contributing to the betterment of widely used programs. The groups/ communities involved in managing these open source projects have established rules and guidelines for contributions, particularly regarding writing and debugging of codes, with which newcomers are obliged learn, and conform to. 

I have taken steps to learn some of the various kinds of contributions one can make to open-source projects, from as little and seemingly trivial as simply tapping a button on an app confirming certain details regarding the use of the app to writing fully fledged programs to support, improve or replace existing programs, as comprehensively stated at _[this website.]_(https://rubygarage.org/blog/how-contribute-to-open-source-projects)

After a little pondering, I decided to start small with my contributions, by way of sharing ideas, suggesting inputs and giving feedback, and then work my way up from there.  I’m still in the learning process of becoming a programmer and I’d much rather get more comfortable with the various programming languages first, before I commit to making actual code contributions to the community.
That being said, if I come across a project for which I’m sufficiently qualified to make contributions to in terms of writing or debugging of code, I’d be more than happy to offer my contributions.

I took some courses in **geography** and **urban & rural planning** in the past and I have found I gravitate to almost anything that has to do with those fields, especially geography. I really enjoyed every bit of it and so if there’s a project in open-source I’d be interested in, it would be one that is related to those fields.
More specifically, **OpenStreetMap** is one project that piqued my interested and would very much like to make my contributions regarding such projects. It would be nice to develop a career in programming surrounding areas I already have some knowledge and interest in. :)

As a matter of preference, and at this time, I'd like whatever open-source project I get involved in to be one that is based on _C/C++_ programming language as it’s the only programming language I have as of yet studied and I’m comfortable with. 



