
## Project Evaluation

The project I evaluated is called **Electron** (formally Atom Shell). It is an open-source framework developed by GitHub. Electron is a framework for creating native applications with web technologies like JavaScript, HTML, and CSS through the use of Chromium and Node.js.
It is a project developed and maintained by GitHub, which I recently learned, is a subsidiary of Microsoft). Electron has been adopted by companies such as Slack, Discord, Microsoft and Openfin, among others. Their official website is [here]( https://electronjs.org/) and the GitHub repository is [here.]( https://github.com/electron/electron)

The evaluation process went relatively smoothly, compared to the one I did in class on OpenStreetMap (OSM). That being said, the ease of evaluating Electron is largely due to the experience and lessons I learned from evaluating OpenStreet Map with my team member. 
My team had some difficulty finding the primary programming language and the source code for OSM but that’s because we were looking at it wrong. I learned OSM is not just a singular self-contained project. Rather, it comprises of several smaller different projects that collaborate to make the OSM what it is. Each of these smaller projects have their own repositories on GitHub. After deciding which of those smaller projects to look at for the purposes of the class activity, it became simpler to evaluate the project.

I learned how to find the Programming languages used for any particular project on GitHub, the thin colored bar on the main page of the repository that highlights the percentages of the various programming languages used, which I would never have guessed, had it not been pointed out to the by the Professor. I learned what a triage is, although, I’m a little unclear its usage on Github with regards to how much different it is from labels. I learned that many projects define labels for the various kinds of issues that a contributor may potentially come up with, which, offers a cleaner, compartmentalized system of classifying and dealing with issues. 

I learned that the source codes of some of these projects are typically not in a singular file, which in hindsight, should have been obvious considering much of the C++ coding I’ve done surrounds the principle of separating header(**.hpp**) files from source(**.cpp**) files. I don’t know why I expected all the code to be embedded inside a single file. 
Electron has a ton of code fragments each in different files in the repository so, I looked at a few of them, indicated the names of those files, and entered the number of lines of code in each. This is different from what I did for OSM (the “iD Editor” project to be specific) where I looked at all the code files, which weren’t many, obtained the number of lines of code in each and summed them up for a total amount.


I’d say the information I had most trouble finding was the number of maintainers maintaining the project. I dug deep into the repo and looked everywhere I thought it could possibly be indicated. But then I realized, unless its explicitly stated in one of the readmes (this was the case for one of the projects under OSM called *[The Rails Port]( https://github.com/openstreetmap/openstreetmap-website)*), you’d have to figure it out the hard way. I figured, from past classes, that only the maintainers are authorized to accept and merge pull requests, so I headed into the closed pull requests, reviewed a number of them, and found the info I needed.


## Week Activities.
This past week, aside from this assignment on Electron, I’ve been working with my teammate on the project evaluation for OpenStreet Map as we were unable to complete it during class.
