## GitHub Contribution Progress
Well I’m happy to say I’ve made my first contribution to the open-source community on GitHub. It’s just a small documentation contribution but it felt good to my small offer accepted and incorporated into something much bigger. After I submitted the [issue](https://github.com/microsoft/terminal/issues/3443) last week, I was unsure weather or not to start work on it as it was seemingly assigned to some other members. It wasn’t until later when a maintainer tagged the issue as “help-wanted”, even though I stated my intention to help in the issue, that I was convinced I could start work. 
Before I got started, I reviewed the very detailed [git workflow]( https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/github-workflow-activity-01/blob/master/contribution-workflow.md) activity we had in class just to refamiliarize myself with some of the commands. 

I [forked](https://github.com/shakeel30/terminal) the repository, cloned it, created a remote for it and then I opened a [pull request]( ) restating the issue at hand and how I intended to fix it. I also created a branch to hold all my changes. In their rules, the contributor must open a “draft pull request”, which evidently marks it as a work in progress needing further review before being merged. I did exactly that.

Now there was a [template](https://github.com/microsoft/terminal/blob/master/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md) I had to follow and provide adequate information about the issue. It had a PR checklist that I had to stick to, to meet the standards of the group. One item on the checklist stuck out to me. It’s a Contributor License Agreement (CLA) which required me to electronically sign it. This is apparently a requirement for any Microsoft open source project. Naturally I was skeptical about signing stuff online, and I don’t recall we covered this in class so I read a bit about it and this [article](https://ben.balter.com/2018/01/02/why-you-probably-shouldnt-add-a-cla-to-your-open-source-project/), which is against adding a CLA to open source projects, summarizes it as follows; “Whereas open source licenses are a copyright grant for users to use the project, a contributor license agreement, at its core, is the right for the project to incorporate a contributor’s code.” 

Clicking on the CLA link in the PR redirects you to a separate page with the information about the CLA. The information required are GitHub login, email address, name, date and signature, among others. I read and went provided the information needed. Here is a PDF link to [Microsoft's CLA]( https://opensource.microsoft.com/pdf/microsoft-contribution-license-agreement.pdf) for the Windows Terminal Project.


So, after fulfilling the checklist, I made a copy of the contributing file from the doc folder and pasted it into the root folder. Then I staged and committed the changes. I then updated the pull request with the new changes. 
In just a few minutes, a maintainer reviewed and made a suggestion to move the actual file instead of simply copying it as it served no purpose in the docs folder. I immediately did that in my clone by just deleting the file from the doc folder, restaged the changes and committed with the appropriate message of course. 

I must say, the response rate by the maintainers and members is really impressive and encouraging, and I’d like to think the “draft pull request” had something to do with it because it opens the PR up for review without you having to actually click of the “ready for review” button. That was a pretty cool feature which I learned was introduced just early this year. It didn’t take long before I received an approval of the changes and a comment by one of the maintainers saying it looked good to him. oh and I must mentions that there is a bot that does some testing and what I assume to be matching up my fork with the master branch of the repository to make sure everything is in sync I guess. there are 8 of these checks and It does this with every commit within a span of not more than 15 minutes. All 8 checks must be passed before the PR can be considered for merging. 

Pull requests cannot be merged without it being reviewed by at least two reviewers but that didn’t take long either. A second reviewer approved of it and immediately merged it. In less than 24 hours, I had submitted a documentation pull request and had it reviewed and merged back to the master. This happened much sooner than I ever expected it to especially considering the troubles I went through with VLC. 
Both issue and pull request were closed and upon refreshing the [repository’s main page]( https://github.com/microsoft/terminal), the contributing.md file is present and has now been detected and reflected in the [community profile page](https://github.com/microsoft/terminal/community). I have cleaned up by deleting the feature branch from both the clone and my fork without any issues. Also, I’m listed in the list of [contributors]( https://github.com/microsoft/terminal/graphs/contributors) for the project. Yay me 😊.

I’m going to be searching for more issues that I can resolve and hopefully I do it enough times to get very comfortable with the workflow and not have to keep referring to the GitHub workflow in class. 




## Wikipedia
I made a small [edit]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/Shakeel03) to a wiki page about my home town Wa in the Upper-West region of Ghana. The edit was specifically about the stable food. I added the other name for it and linked it to its dedicated Wikipedia page. Also, I corrected how the abbreviation “TZ” was derived.


## System76
The benefits and impact of open source is far reaching and extends well beyond just making “free” software open to the community to develop and improve. Most hardware manufacturers typically sell their product to consumers transferring ownership over to them. But do the consumers really own the product if there is still proprietary software running on it? Do they really own it if copyright laws restrict said consumers from accessing or developing the code behind the curtain?

Regarding security, it goes without saying, the more developers working on some code, the better and faster that code develops. This has been a recurring theme in the few  months I have spent learning about open source. To quote Eric Steven Raymond’s [The Cathedral And The Bazaar]( http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html),  “Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow”. This concept was also one of the key points of Karen Sandler’s fight for open-source, and I surmise, the main selling point of Open Source in general. 

The article on [open-source firmware]( https://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2019/10/239673-open-source-firmware/fulltext) is a bit technical but I understood the point it was carrying across. With each passing year, there are reports of critical security flaws deeply embedded within a number of computers/ servers by hackers and with each passing year, Microsoft, Intel, among others, repair those flaws. How I see it, the issue here is there is never going to be a shortage of hackers in the world. And as tech companies advance their security, so does these hackers and whatever tools they use. I mean its code, there’s bound to be bugs hidden somewhere waiting to be exploited, especially considering only a handful of developers are allowed to review the code anyway. This is assuming they even know about the bug at all. It’s a vicious cycle that goes on in perpetuity. 

Integrating an open firmware is a step in the right direction.  Thus, code is open to all and all eyes are on it. Bugs will be discovered at a much faster rate and fixes issued at a more efficient and *open* manner. Here’s hoping that System76’s approach becomes more widely adopted and that we reach the point where all aspects of a computer are open sourced, sooner rather than later.

##Thoughts on Kevin Fleming
I didn’t really understand Bloomberg’s function until this presentation. I realize now how significant their most profitable service impacts the finance sector. The terminal’s real-time financial data analysis must be a really huge sought-after service for the kind of amount users are willing to pay for it. Which is why I find their dedication to opensource interesting. At the end of his presentation, he mentioned an impressive amount of opensource projects they have developed.
This got me wondering how many big tech companies who are not primarily open-source focused have dedicated open source departments. Bloomberg is the second big tech company I know to have active open source projects and I believe there’s more. The first being Microsoft and their Terminal project which coincidentally is the very project I’m working on. 
I just find it interesting how these companies are utilizing opensource software to build their infrastructure and applications and then feed improvements back into the project. If more companies could employ such approaches, I think it could greatly increase the significance and popularity of the open source community even more.

