
## Thoughts on Git and Github Thus Far

This past Git Activity felt more extensive and slightly complicated with regards to the sections involving branching and cleaning-up. I wouldn’t go as far as to call it hard or difficult. There’s a bit of a learning curve to it where you get better the more you use it and learn from your mistakes. I have come to understand a lot of the commands and what exactly they do. However, I can’t say I fully understand branching. I know when to use it and why it is required. To allow one to make changes without affecting the original copy of the project, and then merging the changes only when your confident about those changes. To be more specific, it is the branching process involved within the workflow that I had trouble getting. So, I revisited the presentation slides displayed in class and I started looking at a few other articles online and its definitely helped a lot.
I hope to improve my understanding even better with more practice.

## [Finding a project to contribute to.]( https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#finding-a-project-to-contribute-to)

In my last blog I pointed out how I was thrilled to discover that my first contributions does not have to be code and how I settled on contributing documentation as a start. Well, among the list of links in the article, after looking at a bunch of them, I clicked and followed through with [this link]( https://firstcontributions.github.io/). 

It  lead to a repository on Github for first time contributors and it takes you on the standard *fork -> clone -> edit -> PR* workflow which we’ve done many times already in class and at home so, I pretty much breezed through that fairly quickly, but not before I read the code-of-conduct readme file.

It went on to present a list of projects I could get started on in terms of contributions. Majority of these projects and even many of the ones listed in the suggested articles lead to projects that have either programming and or technical names with a brief description of what the project is about. This confused me and I started to wonder why a good bulk of the suggested links for contribution were programming related. So, I guess most kinds of contributions, even the non-programming kinds such as documentation and such all fall under a particular software projects in need of a significant amount of coding contributions. And any documentation contributions are to documents or writeups related to said software. 

Either way, I haven’t found one yet, but I think I now have a little idea of where to look based on the links presented in the article.


## New Knowledge and Contributions This Past Week
This week of the course, I developed my skills in git a bit further and experienced yet another Git workflow from the recent class activity. My team was able to complete all the objectives required and we each opened other issues for the other to fix and close later in the week as directed by the professor.

On Open Street Maps, I added some features such as stop signs. I also filled the ‘State’ and ‘City’ fields for a number of buildings in my area which I realized, majority of them aren’t done.
I tried highlighting a block of apartment buildings to try to fill those fields all at once but unfortunately, OpenStreetMap cannot currently do that so I had to fill them in one by one.
Next week I plan to move on to a different area altogether and to fix different issues on the map.

 



