## HFOSS
The humanitarian project that interests me is [The Third World Problems]( https://opensource.com/article/17/7/third-world-problems-project) project.
The project serves as a platform to report identified problems in third world countries, of which there are many, and bring people together to develop and tackle solutions to these issues. 

Having originated from a developing country, I have witnessed some of these problems and can confidently say all such countries need all the aid they can get. Also, I studied “Development Planning” as a first degree in college back at home and the objective of this course is to identify developmental problems within communities and to come up with solutions to them.

Thus, as part of the course, students are tasked with conducting an extensive field study of communities, then, using the data collected, brainstorm and come up with smart, feasible and practical developmental solutions to issues identified in the community.
My experience acquired from that course, coupled with my expanding knowledge in computer science would make this the ideal project for me, should I ever want to make humanitarian open source contributions.

Side note: Their [main page]( https://thirdworldproblems.co.za/) has been down for some days now. 




## Tom Callaway’s Blog and Opensource as a Business Model.
Seems like there is a good and rising amount of enterprises opting for these proprietary/opensource hybrid solutions. As promising as companies fully utilizing opensource on all fronts sounds, I fear these hybrid business models may very well be as far as it goes. The prime goal of many businesses is increasing profits. 

The companies that manage to strike a balance between proprietary and opensource solutions will often find themselves in a sweet spot of benefitting from the many advantages of opensource and maintaining a steady stream of profits from their own proprietary software. Once any profit-oriented business identifies that their proprietary code does something unique and that there is a demand for it, they would more often than not take advantage of their position to make more money. Meanwhile, they could also make use of opensource solutions in other sections of whatever diverse services they provide.

It is however great and promising that the potential benefits of using opensource has become so apparent and noticed by enterprises, such that many of them see the need to incorporate it somehow into their business models. 


In ten years, I’d like to see open source become even more relevant and utilized in the business of software production. But I wouldn’t want to see proprietary software completely phased out cos I believe there is some merit to those as well. 

Yes, I recognize that one can still make money doing Opensource however, the reasons that motivate developers to venture into full opensource is often very different from the reasons that motivate proprietary software developers, which is mostly money related. We’ve had so many groundbreaking proprietary software so far, many of which are arguable financially motivated. And while there is a growing number of proprietary software becoming open source, the [list]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_formerly_proprietary_software) isn’t nearly long enough.


What I’d like to see is an increased number of software started out as proprietary become opensource down the line. That way, we have a more diverse range of opensource software developed, owing to motivations that span across the spectrum from financial, to learning, to leisure, and to humanitarian, all of which have the power to motivate individuals and groups to reach varying degrees of success in software development and production.

By that, I guess where I’d like to work at is a company that does both opensource and proprietary. The former more than the latter. A company that does not only use or develop opensource projects, but also makes conscious efforts to support and preserve the opensource community as a whole, much like Bloomberg is doing.
