## Journey on project
As I mentioned in my last blog, I switched my project from VLC to [Microsoft Terminal](https://github.com/microsoft/terminal), for reasons I outlined in that [blog](https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/shakeel30-weekly/week9/). Upon finding this project, and while familiarizing myself with the repository, I discovered, on the project [community profile page]( https://github.com/microsoft/terminal/community), that the contribution file was marked as absent. 


This was odd considering they do in fact have a very detailed contributing.md file hidden in a “[docs](https://github.com/microsoft/terminal/blob/master/doc/contributing.md)” folder as indicated in the readme file. Since I was also actively looking for something to contribute, I figured this could potentially be my first issue. 

I went ahead to [read more](https://help.github.com/en/github/building-a-strong-community/about-community-profiles-for-public-repositories) about what a community profile is and what its purpose is for projects on GitHub just to get a deeper understanding of what I’m looking at and what its relevance is, just so I don't open an issue on something I barely understand.

I discovered a lot about it. The community profile is sort of like a check list for repositories that determines the health of a project and how it compares to the community standards of opensource. Generally, these are the files and indicators that make it easy for an outsider to know what the project is about, what their getting into, and how to get started with it(contribute)., should they desire(contribute).
These are the code of conduct, contributing, license, description among others, which we’ve learned about during the start of the semester. These were also the answers to one of the questions in the just recent quiz 2 (which somehow I failed to list them all, maybe because I was late and disoriented from the limited time I had left to finish up :disappointed:).

Adding these files is technically the maintainers job, however, the page offers the option to propose adding any missing file, should the project maintainers fail to do so.
As to why the file wasn’t reflected in the community profile, I gather it’s because its not in a supported location, the root directory, where it’s meant to look in. Thus, my task was laid out for me.

I opened an [issue](https://github.com/microsoft/terminal/issues/3443) following the steps indicated in the contributing file, stated the problem clearly, and attached a snapshot of the community profile page where I detected the issue. What I planned to do was simply make a copy of the contributing.md file and paste it in the root directory.
 First the projects bot detected the open issue and assigned some labels on it. Then, in less than an hour of submission, it was responded to by a project member, which I did not fully expect to be this quick. I also stated I would like to handle it by just making a copy of the already existing contribution file and pasting it in a supported location where the community profile can detect it.
He responded “Huh that's weird. Yea it should probably reflect there, I blame @bitcrazed 😜 If anything I'd just move it to the root, no need having doc/ and docs/”.


At first and for a while I thought he meant he would move the file himself. The wording had me confused so I wasn’t sure how to proceed from there because right underneath the comment, he seemed to have assigned it to @bitcrazed and @cinnamon-msft. I’m not entirely sure if that means I cannot begin work on the issue or if only those assigned can work on it. because of this I wasn’t sure how to even respond.
I think I’m gonna go ahead and open a pull request on the issue but im also going to be searching for another issue just in case its made more clear that this issue is indeed not assigned to me.


## Wikipedia
I think the hardest task concerning this activity will be finding a misinformation to correct. I haven’t yet settled on an issue to edit yet. I have a lot of interests, but I feel like I don’t know enough to actually edit or add to their wikipedia pages because, I feel whatever I add has to be factual and not based on opinion or conjecture.
Adding to already established knowledge might be the easier route and I might already have a few topics in mind. 
